CHANGES TO THIS EDITION For this edition, we have strengthened the pedagogical apparatus and increased the depth of coverage in selected areas all in accordance with contemporary thoughts about how best to teach general chemistry. We have also made a number of smaller organizational changes to improve the flow of information. The following summarizes the major improvements made throughout the book.
Logical approach to solving problems. All worked examples are presented consistently throughout the text by using a tripartite structure of Analyze-Solve-Assess. This presentation not only encourages students to use a logical approach in solving problems but also provides them with a way to start when they are trying to solve a problem that may seem, at first, impossibly difficult. The approach is used implicitly by those who have had plenty of practice solving problems; but for those who are just starting out, the Analyze-Solve-Assess structure will serve to remind students to (1) analyze the information and plan a strategy, (2) implement the strategy, and (3) check or assess their answer to ensure that it is a reasonable one. Integrative Practice Examples and End of Chapter Exercises. Users of previous editions have given us very positive feedback about the quality of the integrative examples at the end of each chapter and the variety of the end-of-chapter exercises. We have added two practice examples (Practice Example Aand Practice Example B) to every Integrative Example in the text. Rather than replace end-of-chapter exercises with new exercises, we have opted in most chapters to increase the number of exercises. In most chapters, at least 10 new exercises have been added; and in many chapters, 20 or more exercises have been added. Use of IUPAC recommendations. We are pleased that our book serves the needs of instructors and students around the globe. Because communication among scientists in general, and chemists in particular, is made easier when we agree to use the same terms and notations, we have decided to follow with relatively few exceptions recommendations made by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC). In particular, the version of the periodic table that now appears throughout the text is based on the one currently endorsed by IUPAC. The IUPAC-endorsed version places the elements lanthanum (La) and actinium (Ac) in the lanthanides and actinides series, respectively, rather than in group 3. Interestingly, almost every other chemistry book still uses the old version of the periodic table, even though the proper placement of La and Ac has been known for more than 20 years! We have also made the following important changes in specific chapters and appendices: In Chapters 1 to 6, many problems are solved by using both a stepwise approach and a conversion pathway approach. Students with no chemistry background may be intimidated by the conversion pathway approach and may prefer a stepwise approach. Those who require only a refresher will likely prefer and use the conversion pathway approach. We hope that the needs of both instructors and students will be well served by showing both approaches in the early chapters. In Chapter 6 (Gases), we have changed the definition of standard temperature and pressure (STP) to conform to the IUPAC recommendations